CS381, Winter 2014 Optional final project

1 The project is optional.
2 It worth 10% of the overall grade.
3 You have to finish homework assignments after homework 3, take all quizzes
  and final to receive the extra credits.
4 No group project is allowed. Each student has to do it on her/his own.
5 You submission should consists at least a text file that address the following
  questions, and may contain many files of source code in your picked language.
6 The due date is Mar. 20th, 2014. Submit an electronic version to COE TEACH
  before the due date. Meanwhile, submit a printout of all your files before 
  the final on Mar. 20th.
7 Clearly mark the questions you worked on. You will earn corresponding credits for
  the questions you worked out. 

Project question: pick a language (not Haskell) and answer the following questions.

a. Write a short summary about the language. What is the language and how does 
   it work? What is the language good for and not good for? 
b. Investigate the language and report an interesting aspect of the language. For
   example, the information about the scoping, typing and parameter passing mechanism
   is of particular interests. In particular, give the reasons why the language 
   comes with that special mechanism. 
c. When applicable, write a program that exhibits parametric polymorphism, ad hoc
   polymorphism, or subtype polymorphism.
d. Recall the expression language with Int values and Boolean values in the following
   Haskell data type definition (refer to slides on Semantics and Types if you forget
   the language). 
   
   data Expr = N Int
             | Bo Bool
             | Plus Expr Expr
             | If Expr Expr Expr
             | Equal Expr Expr
   
   Represent this expression language using the mechanisms supported by the language
   you picked. Define a semantic function to evaluate this expression language in your 
   picked language. Define a type checker that implements static strong typing in your
   picked language. What is the advantage and disadvantage of using Haksell or your 
   picked language to define semantics and implement the type checker.
   
e. Show the semantic evaluation result, type checking result of each of the following 
   expressions (you have to translate them into your representation) with the program
   you wrote.
   
   (1) e1 = If (N 3) (N 3) (N 3)
   (2) e2 = Plus (N 2) (If (Bo True) (N 3) (N 5))
   (3) e3 = Plus (N 2) (If (Bo True) (N 3) (Bo True))
   (4) e4 = If (N 3 `Equal` N 4) (e2 `equal` N 7) (Bo False) 